Now we had a look at all the core building blocks to styling in ionic apps.
By the way no matter if your building an ionic angular or just ionic vanilla app now feel free to of
course continue exploring the docks to learn about all the different properties you can sentence on.
One thing I want to point you add is that in the component documentation you'll also find for each component
let's say for the button you will not only find an explanation on how to use it and which properties
and attributes you can set but if you scroll down to the bottom you'll also find any sensible CSR as
properties for Dad specific component.
If there are any and how would you use these components.
Now that is all important to learn.
You see that for a button you can set the background background act the way that box SHADOW BORDER WITH
and so on.
So what can you do with that.
You can set debt of course not by going to variables and adding it to root because if you start adding
dash dash eye and background here which is a variable that is mentioned here for buttons then this will
not have the effect you want.
Or by the way it's just named background it is will even less have the effect you want.
Instead what you do is simply you set up your own variables for the specific selector.
So in the example of the button for ion dash button and that's all important you select ionic components
just like normal H2 to all elements.
If you want to select them by tag.
So this is absolutely supported.
And now for ion button you could set up anything you could set the color to white to set a white text
color but here you can now also use these special variables.
So here you could now set background to blue and that automatically every button would have a blue background.
If you haven't assigned a specific color so if you as for example on your off page if you are styling
a button with color primary it will still have that primary color as you can tell.
But if you would remove that we're talking about the default styling that would normally be a grey ish
look.
Now if you remove that and you got that blue look or that blue color set up then you got a blue color
out of the box.
So that is what this would allow you to do and you do assign these components specific variables by
using the components selector and then applying the variable or setting the variable you want to set.
Here I'm doing this in the variables SPSS file and therefore this will have an effect application wide
but you could even do that of course in a component SAS file to scope it to that component.
So if we're talking about the offer item again here I could also target my eye and text and set up some
specific styles for that and then only iron text instead of offer item would be affected.
So Dad would not be having an effect application wide hence it's important to also keep in mind that
where you set this up plays an important role and that in general you can also set component specific
properties for the color.
This might be less necessary because often you want to use your main theme but maybe you want to change
the way the shadow looks on all buttons because by default here on Android we have a slight drop shadow.
Maybe you're not happy with that and you want to use a different one.
Well then you can simply add iron button and then set shadow which is simply this box shadow.
This variable so box dash shadow then we could set this to let's say two pixels two pixels 20 pixels
and then this shadow style overall.
So now this would be a default value you would assign to the box shadow property.
Here I'm assigning it to the box shadow variable which as we learned is supported by ionic and is picked
up by the button and therefore now we have a larger shadow on this button as you can tell.
So this is all to what you can do you have these component specific properties or variables you can
set and you can not just use component selectors to style anything even outside of variables of course
you can still apply normal CSX rules but you can also use these C as as variables to set application
wide or component wide styles for a specific ionic component.